(feat) core: support new org-mode citations (#1806)
org-roam/org-roam: doc/org-roam.org

  Remove a ref from the node at point.

* Citations

Since version 9.5, Org has first-class support for citations. Org-roam supports
the caching of both these in-built citations (of form ~[cite:@key]~) and [[https://github.com/jkitchin/org-ref][org-ref]]
citations (of form cite:key).

** Setup

*org-ref*

> To ensure that org-ref citations are cached, ~org-ref~ must be loaded prior to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you wish to use ~org-ref~ citations, to ensure they are cached, ~org-ref~ must be loaded prior to
```

calls of ~org-roam-db-sync~. This can be achieved by placing ~(require
'org-ref)~ before ~org-roam~ is loaded, for example in the ~:init~ block of the
Org-roam use-package declaration:

#+begin_src emacs-lisp
(use-package org-roam
  :init
  (require 'org-ref)
  :config
  ;;...
  )
#+end_src

*org-cite*

Org-cite should be loaded by default, and no additional setup should be
required.

** Using the Cached Information

It is common to use take reference notes for academic papers. To designate the
node to be the canonical node for the academic paper, we can use its unique
citation key:

#+begin_src org
,* Probabilistic Robotics
:PROPERTIES:
:ID:       51b7b82c-bbb4-4822-875a-ed548cffda10

> :ROAM_REFS: @thrun2005probabilistic

Reviewer 2: I don't really have anything meaningful to add on this, but AFAIU this is not something that would be actionable (interactively) by org? Since this is a custom syntax. 

IIRC org-ref's "cite:" were actionable, just like URL links. I'm not sure whether this even important, but just wanted to highlight this, so someone else who's more knowledgeable on citations would evaluate this.

Reviewer: I raised this question on the org-mode list recently, though have not yet had any responses.

https://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/emacs-orgmode/2021-08/msg00317.html

My tentative suggestion there was to allow citations in the property drawers, but I am still not sure.

As @Wetlize guesses, references of this form won't be treated as citations by org, and so they don't be actionable.

Thoughts?

Reviewer: Just to update, org-cite dev says it's a "terrible idea" to allow cites in property drawers :-)

https://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/emacs-orgmode/2021-09/msg00130.html

the caching of both these in-built citations (of form ~[cite:@key]~) and [[https://github.com/jkitchin/org-ref][org-ref]]
citations (of form cite:key).

> Org-roam attempts to load both the ~org-ref~ and ~org-cite~ package when

Reviewer: What does this mean? How will you know "when needed"?

That if you have them installed, it will load them, but otherwise do nothing?

I was wondering about a user who has been using org-ref, but is migrating to org-ref-cite. For that user, both will be loaded until they uninstall org-ref?

Reviewer 2: @bdarcus It means that each time when org-roam will need to parse files it will try to automatically load both of the packages. If it detects that the package is loaded, it will parse cite links from the available packages. Otherwise, it will simply noop their parsing and do nothing. 

> I was wondering about a user who has been using org-ref, but is migrating to org-ref-cite. For that user, both will be loaded until they uninstall org-ref?

Yes. If org-roam detects that both, org-cite` and `org-ref are available, both of the citations types will be parsed and stored in the database.
